Game of Thrones is so badly written that
now the only dramatic tension in the TV
show is provided by wondering how harsh
the reaction on YouTube is going to be
episode wraps how how negative is Elio
Garcia's critique of this company that's
really the only question I I find myself
asking this is a series of characters
who used to be brilliant and focused and
highly motivated and mysterious and have
intrigue and insight and philosophically
interesting things to say look at VAR
E's look at Baris the spider think about
what he represented in season 1 season 2
season 3 you were interested in what he
had to say next what do you just even
his comments about life and philosophy
and religion and politics was
interesting you're interested about what
he was concealing there was intrigue
there was mystery you wondered what the
hell is vari he's doing now he's a guy
standing around on on a soundstage with
nothing to do no particular motivation
no mystery no injury I don't care I
don't care what Varner's they might as
well have written him out of the show
this point I can say that about the
entire cast I think a lot of people you
felt that already last season with with
Littlefinger you know this great schemer
this great character no he just ran out
of things to scheme this just ran out of
plot it's almost as if a bunch of really
bad writers had been handed a really
great series of books and after a few
years of adapting the books they just
ran out of books that's that's what it
seems like then all of a sudden these
these brilliant fascinating interesting
characters whether you look at var ease
or Littlefinger or you know even even
Tyrion himself it's just got it's got
nothing to say we get we can what see
after the other after I have to shout
out my girlfriend how how many scenes
can end with the staged instruction
walks off stage two
quickly hop stated stoic silence and it
doesn't matter it doesn't matter if the
scene is one of seduction and romance or
one of comedy or one of like death
threats just walk off stoically guys
think about think about in seasons 1
through 3
when major characters arrived somewhere
I know stay with me it's not majeure
when you know Ned Stark
arrives in King's Landing the capital
city you have the sense the carefully
construed sense of a complex feudal
society with complex relations he's
received there is a court you have the
sense of courtly life of a complex in ID
there are festivals there were feasts
yeah but that's not all there is to it
both in the books and in the show when
Catelyn are sir Catelyn when Catelyn
arrives at the inn on the crossroads you
have the sense of a complex feudal
society and there are schemes and plots
and there's a lot going on and now when
people arrive somewhere the Empress of
the Seven Kingdoms the Conqueror of
marine and the known world when she
shows up at Winterfell they're just a
bunch of guys on a soundstage they're
just a bunch of characters standing
there making eye contact and of course
it ends with everyone walking off so
ugly in silence there is none of the
sense of social or political complexity
that you had there in seasons 1 2 & 3
now look my interest is more in that
social realism and political complexity
not everyone says for some people some
people really do read the books as
romance and then want to feel that
romantic tension a romantic complexity
like there was a time when Sansa Stark
was kind of sort of in love with Sandor
Clegane we don't we don't get any of
that here either so if that was what you
cared about the books is that kind of
romantic component that's also been
drowned like an unwanted kitten here oh
you know there are other major themes
than the books get more and more
important and in the TV show of just
disappeared yeah yeah remember remember
the religion of real or
remember that was a big deal when that
really mattered remember when the the
religion of the old gods was like way
more important than just a decorative
element in the background those trees
and what they represent it's gone
there's no I mean there's both no
political narrative or meaning anymore
it's also no religious or philosophical
many more it would be like you know if
in Star Wars as the Star Wars movies
progressed this whole thing about the
force and the dark sever it just kind of
disappeared you know what what wait a
minute there were these big questions
about the gods and magic and the meaning
of life and magic returning the world
there was no magic before and there is
now and the legends about the past we
don't know if they're true or false
where they meant to figurative or
symbolic or literally true there were
all these questions I mean you know when
the books and in the show that were set
up just all just all fades away just
nobody really cares anymore about real
or or you know the old gods or the
religion of the seven there's a picture
yeah remember no more that was a big
deal remember one like the question of
burning down the Sept and and Cersei
destroyed
did that have any plot consequences for
anyone no the religion of the seven and
the faith healing of Sandor Clegane and
like yeah remember the religion the
seven it had like the largest army in
the Seven Kingdoms because it organized
the poor the poor were begging for bread
and dying of famine so they all got
organized and radicalized and part of
this huge religion hood what what
happened to that that's just that just
petered out that just disappeared the
same way that like you know the armies
of them it's name is Submarino so the
guy the follower of relora anyway saris
his name's the Stannis the armies of
Stannis Stannis has you know the
greatest army in the history of the
world he was up there in the north of
the wall they just oh yeah they just
they just fade it out you know just just
disappeared and so did Ramsay Bolton
army Ramsay Bolton army beat that army
it's just gone let's just don't worry
about it you know one whatever fee after
the other dissolves so you know there
were a lot of things here that if you
drew them on a chalkboard might seem
interesting
even if we're starting from like even if
we accept like okay this is like a Star
Wars universe but then everything that
made Star Wars interesting in the first
film has just gradually disappeared from
the other okay but nevertheless so
you've got people speaking different
languages from different cultures all
living together in tents in the middle
of the frozen tundra that could be kind
of interesting a good writer could say
oh wow we have the Dothraki and there
was so much work put in back in season 1
- making the Dothraki kind of
interesting right in the books there's
even more so many pages given to trying
to make the reader interesting this
right
so when the Dothraki come back there
must be something interesting about that
right having the Dothraki living in the
same tents with people from the far
north having people from the south
having well again they're a totally
different culture you know the army of
eunuchs you know from marine and so on
like okay so all these people from all
over the world are for the first time
ever living in one place at one time and
they don't even really know why they're
there and they've never even heard of
the great ice wall but they don't this
is all so what's going on with that
that's it wow you come from the desert
you've never seen snow before and then
they're telling you there's this giant
wall made out of ice and there were
zombies March to it okay that might be
an interesting story to tell even if
it's just literally the peasants I
perspective of those people living
together in a camp
what if also it's the contrast between
hey you know you guys with the religion
of the seven your religion is largely
made up of abstract philosophical
symbolic gods mother maiden Crone the
stranger yeah yeah but guess what
there were some other religions in the
storyline that are literally true and
then like like they actually have cause
and effect magical powers like hey guess
what the trees they're not an allegory
these magical trees they actually have
magic they actually matter and it's
connected we still don't know that I
mean all this stuff was set up season
one with you know the Ravens and the
trees and what's the connection between
the Ravens of the trees and the army of
the Dead and like oh yeah all this this
was all kind of the fault of these magic
elves be magical elf people hate the
children of the forest and the magical
elf people are kind of working for the
trees and the old gods the kind of are
the old gods
which side are the old guns but none of
that is worked out none of it produces
tension or anything interesting what
side is brand on Brandon Stark what do
you represent you so you say you know
what you are the old gods who created
this bioweapon
the Martian army did no nobody has any
motivation except survivalism except
escaping simply no escaping the
Winterfell which doesn't it's not really
a place to escape to just sit there and
wait to die what's the strategy here
guys sorry I mean you know this like Oh
we'll just abandon the wall okay so
that's the greatest natural and man-made
fortress on the planet just gonna give
that up okay let's just keep just keep
but any any concept I mean look
in the books even by the third story in
the Dunkin egg novels I mean I admit the
first two Dunkin egg novellas or short
stories or long stories the first two
are not that politically retro political
complex but by the third story you
really get the sense when you're in a
castle as a setting in the Game of
Thrones world it's politically complex
in the books even at Winterfell
even when Jon Snow is the ruler
Winterfell and you've got Stannis and
his men they're just like the the third
dunk and egg story this question of
knights are motivated because Knights
don't want to be Knights forever Knights
want to become Lords with their own
castle or keep that want to own property
they want promotions different people
are jockeying for different political
outcomes and political outcomes and
economic outcomes and who's gonna get
what land and who's gonna get what
marriage and change marriages in the
price the prices being paid for
different alliances it's complex and you
know indeed again we could have some
rich or meaningful sense of the
relationship of the peasantry to the
aristocrats here zero
ABS absolutely none and instead all we
get is one scene after another that's
incredibly dimly lit to my mind
incredibly aimless and incredibly poorly
written I mean for me from start to
finish it just feels like you're looking
at a bunch of placeholders look yeah
there could have been
some good some good writing here you
know some what what Sansa
says of of Tyrion oh I used to think you
were the cleverest man in the world when
was the last time Tyrion said or did
anything clever you know it's it's been
a long time since Tyrion had anything
clever to say and even if he were now
coming out with really witty jokes like
even he were really getting punchlines
that were whole whole hilarious um it
would feel aimless and pointless I think
the only character who has any
motivation anymore is is Cersei
Lannister
who's unbelievably badly written I mean
it's without even doing a book to show
comparison her motivations are
completely different from the book but
if Cersei is out for revenge
I mean again this is not really the book
but if what Cersei wants is revenge
against the man who killed her father
and she doesn't care if the world burns
doesn't care if the if the zombies take
over the planet at least she's got a
storyline because it seems like
absolutely nobody else does so look um
there was a time when it look okay okay
good news first good news first good
news first show's gonna end and then
finally in the year 2020 being a fan of
A Song of Ice and Fire
can go back to being a fan of A Song of
Ice and Fire I mean there must have been
a time when fans of The Lord of the
Rings books they really kind of felt
like oh we used to have this small cool
scene and that people who were really
into the books and then the movies were
a big hit and you know kind of it kind
of destroys the scene even though it's a
multi-million dollar success story right
and then the movies fade away and now we
get to go back to being more of a
literary scene people who are really
into into those books I hope and I
expect something similar is gonna happen
with Game of Thrones Song of Ice and
Fire the TV show is gonna fade out and I
hope in 20 20 or 20 21 I'm gonna have to
get to go to my first conference I'm
gonna write and publish my first essays
I'm serious cuz I've been for me I'm
really in it for the long haul I really
appreciate the books primarily as a kind
of political artifact I love
to write an essay looking at the Chinese
translation in contrast in English
translation the Chinese political
interpretation the Chinese response to
the politics of the books fascinating to
write about love to write about love to
make use of it is I think there's a lot
of really meaningful questions raised
there and now all we've got to do is
wait for the TV show to die and be
forgotten
so the fandom to get back to being
something halfway meaningful and you
know the bad news is that at this point
it's just so obvious this show is just
as bad at and it just as terrible as you
know the the Star Wars prequels where
any pretense people might have had if
they were fans the original Star Wars
movie the very first Star Wars movie
where they fell hey this is something
politically provocative or some kind of
social commentary or some kind of
meaningful fable whether you think of
that in religious or philosophical terms
and then you know hey you're looking at
Jar Jar Binks and the Jar Jar Binks
Happy Meal and the reality of what Star
Wars had become after its reincarnation
and commercialization and you just have
to hang your head in shame and say well
this is something I can't even publicly
be a fan of anymore Game of Thrones in
2019 it really is that bad that's all I
can say to you is don't evade it don't
turn away don't make excuses face up to
it yes yes the quality writing is so bad
the romance between Cersei and the The
Pirate King the one-eyed pirate king
have you read a worse written middle-age
romance in your life in your life it's
worse written than soap commercials it's
worse written than videogames
a fantasy star 8 for the Sega Genesis or
something is better written than this
it's really that bad and then right in
the middle what do we do we cut away
from the boring middle-aged people
having sex
cut to brawn and a wallet of waffle run
in a warehouse gratuitous female nudity
and more terrible writing objectively
bad writing that goes no bare and
accomplishes nothing and CEO and then oh
when that seems done cut back to
cut back to Searcy it's it's just a
cavalcade of terrible writing shout out
to the dragon demands shout out to Elio
Garcia showed everyone else who is
suffering through it and what can I tell
you
Game of Thrones the TV show I probably
would have never heard of these books so
that the TV show was it eight years ago
now which time is past but um guys you
know that there's a lot to be learned
from the study of of good writing and
I've got to say with me that's just a
point of diminishing returns I just
don't think there was that much to be
said about bad writing here you know but
you know there's a lot that's meaningful
and worth examining with celebrating in
in the game of thrones books and in this
TV series and what it's become that's
all it is this this is just Jar Jar
Binks in a fur cape you know waiting for
the zombie army to you know carry them
away and make them into a figurine
that's sold with happy meals that is it
see you next episode